All right, let's look at how
we can deploy our Yoga server.
We're gonna both do it to heroku as well as Now.
So let's do Heroku first.
First thing you need to do is install the Heroku CLI.
If you're on a Mac, just run brew install Heroku
and that will install it for you.
If you don't know what brew is,
you can also download an installer.
If you're on Windows or Ubuntu
you can also install it this way.
The way you can tell that that works
is if you go to your terminal
and you type heroku --help
you should see all of the possible commands
that you can have.
Once you're in there, type heroku login
and that's going to prompt you for your username
and password to login into your heroku account.
If you don't have an account, go ahead and create one.
I think you can have about five free applications running
before you have to pay, which is pretty cool.
Now, this is gonna be a little bit different
than most heroku because I am running a single git repo
with two applications in it.
Now, you might be running separate git repos
for your backend and your frontend.
That's a pretty common thing to do,
and it would be pretty similar to this.
I'll make a note of what the differences would be.
But because I've been doing this entire thing
in a single git repo, and likely you have as well,
you do need to be able to do this.
So, first thing you need to do
is you need to have a git repo,
so if you don't, you type git init,
and that will create an empty git repo.
And you type git add -a and that will add everything.
And then you need to git commit -m
and say something like, all my code,
and then that will commit it.
So, that's it.
It has nothing to do with using GitHub at this point.
It's just using git.
Then what we need to do is create a heroku application.
So we'll type heroku apps:create
and then you type the name of the application that you want.
I'm gonna call mine sickfits-yoga-prod.
It went ahead and created that application for us.
If you refresh this, your dashboard,
you should see sickfits-yoga-proj showing up in there.
Now, it will give you this git URL right here.
And by default it's going to get it listed as a remote.
So if you type git remote -v
you'll see that this is listed as a remote called heroku.
However, we're not actually
going to be using the heroku remote
because we need to just deploy sub-folders.
If I were to deploy this git repo,
it wouldn't know how to start the application
because the backend app, the Yoga apps in backend folder,
and the frontend application,
has a Next.js node application in it.
So, what were gonna do is were gonna add some
more remotes that are for heroku frontend
and heroku backend.
So the way that we do that is you
go ahead and copy that git that you have right here
or you can just copy it from typing git remote-v.
Then were gonna type git remote add and we'll call it
heroku-backend and then paste the actual remote
that you have there.
And now if you type git remote -v you'll see
that we now have another remote called heroku-backend.
Now the way that you push up just a sub folder to our remote
git repo is with something called git sub tree and what
that will do again is it's only gonna push up the contents
of the backend folder to our heroku.
So we type, git subtree push --prefix backend
so -- prefix backend means push up the back end folder.
Then its normal git commands,
where do we want to push, to what remote?
heroko-backend and what local brand do we want to push?
And in our case we're on master.
That's gonna automatically push up our backend here.
And then it will show you all of the remote.
It will detect that it's a node application
so there's no specific stuff
we need to do in order to tell it
that it's a node application, which is pretty nifty.
Then we'll just wait for it to go ahead and install,
all the dependencies are in our app.js.
It is using node version eight.
So if you do need to have a newer version of node running
I think this should be fine for application but if you do
need a newer version you can specify in engines object
inside of your package.json
that has a node property inside of that.
You can set that to greater or equal to nine or 10 or 11
or whatever it is at the time of you watching this.
While we wait for this lets just take a quick look
at our package.json that we have here.
It is going to run,
we've been running npm run dev, which is this.
But what were gonna be doing in production
is by default it will just npm start.
And that's gonna run the nodemon command
which will watch our .js and .graphql files.
And it's going to run the command node index.js.
Looks like it has worked, it deployed it, it will give you
a URL to your application.
If you click on that you can tell
everything has gone right because it's going to load up
the playground, the GraphQL playground for us.
Now it doesn't seem to be starting, I think I know why,
I forgot a step.
But if you want to know why it isn't starting
or if there is an error that tells you about logs
heroku logs --tail
and that will give you the actual tail,
oh in this case I have multiple remotes so we want to say
heroku --tail --app sickfits-yoga-prod
and it will stream all of it.
And this is the actual error that it's throwing.
No Prisma endpoint found.
That's because we did not do the environmental variables.
When we were doing it locally we were putting all
our environmental variables in this variables.env file.
The problem is because were using git and were git ignoring
this file, this file doesn't make it ways up.
So you never want to put variables
that you .env into a git repo.
Sorta the unfortunate downside
to using heroku with git is that you can't push this up.
However it's a pretty easy fix.
All you need to do is go to your heroku backend here,
find your yoga production.
I think we go to our settings,
click on reveal config vars,
and then you just need to quickly
copy, paste all of these values in here.
In this case I'm still gonna put localhost:7777,
but this would be the URL of where your react,
where your frontend application gets deployed.
Then you just go ahead and do the rest.
The really important one here is the PRISMA_ENDPOINT
and actually that's our development endpoint.
We actually wanna use this one right here,
which got swapped out when we just deployed our Prism
of backend, so I'm gonna paste that in here.
Then I'm just gonna go ahead and quickly add
the rest of them.
Here is where you would put not a test stripe token
but a real live stripe token.
Here is where you put your actual SMTP host.
Something like Postmark or Mailjet
or any of the other ones, Mandrill.
There we go.
At this point you can either make a, you can quit this.
You can either make a tiny change to something
in your application and redeploy it or you can go
to your application here and run more,
and restart all dynos.
I'm just gonna show you how to do it from the command line
just so we can get more comfortable with it.
So, let's go here.
What could we change that, maybe index.js, start it!
Now something has been added
so I'm gonna git add all,
git commit -m yay.
And there were going to git subtree push --prefix backend
heroku-backend master
That should push up the dif up to heroku.
Then it's gonna do the whole restart of the dyno,
which is the actual machine that were running it on.
Looks like it's launching, lets go ahead and visit that URL.
Might take a second as the application starts itself.
Looks like it's done, and looks like .graphql playground
if we open up our schema you will see, these are all
of our mutations and all of our queries.
These aren't everything in Prisma
but these are the public facing ones
that we do want to be able to see.
So someone should be able to query the items,
so maybe we'll make a query here
for items, bump this font size up,
and then we'll grab the ID
and the title for every single item.
Run it.
Obviously were not gonna get a list of items
because there's nothing, there are no items in here,
you could run create items.
If you were to run the query users and just grab the user ID
it should tell us you must be logged into that.
So we know that our yoga server is running properly.
Good, I'm gonna also show you now how to deploy it to now.
So if you go to now.sh you'll see that this a hosting
platform by ZEIT.
I am a big fan of it I host a lot
of my own applications on this.
They haven't paid me, neither has heroku,
I'm just a big fan of it.
There support is really good
and it's dead simple to actually use it.
So the way that it works is that you obviously sign up
for a account and then you npm install now -g
and that will install the now CLI tool for you.
Then you simply just go into the folder that you want
so make sure you're in the backend folder,
it's not in the main folder like we did for the last one.
So we just type now.
It's gonna automatically give you a URL.
You can open that up and you can sorta watch
as it does this whole song and dance of installing
all of our dependencies and attempting
to start the application.
You will see these, the security audit pop up.
These happen quite often in node,
they now tell you when there are issues
in the node packages.
Right now there are no fixes to any of these that I have.
I've installed the latest version of everything,
and it still tells you that there's a security issue.
It's worth checking out what the issues are
and making sure that your not using the packaging in
any way that could possibly be done.
Usually they're, when you use a package
in a specific way, so don't be to scared
of 'em, but don't ignore them either.
Looks like we are deploying this sucker, looks good.
Looks like it's now running.
I believe if I were to refresh this,
we now get pushed off to the backend.
This is using our, see you can see everything
that's in here, all of our mutations, all of our queries.
This is using our variables.env file,
you can overwrite that when you deploy it
with the now environmental variables --dotenv file.
So when you deploy it you just simply pass
a --dotenv and you can create a separate file
for your production environmental variables
and that will take that file along for the ride
and apply all those environmental variables for you.
Which is really, really good.
So that's now, pretty simple to get up
and running with that.
Let's move on to actually deploying
the frontend of the application.